---
title: Update 0.11
order: 2
---
# Major Release 0.11 Changelog

### Warnings & known Issues

- As always--We recommend you download a new instance of TFG and copy your save files across (along with your xaeros folder, options.txt, etc) instead of updating directly in place. Also, make backups often!
- WARNING! If you're upgrading your world from 0.10 to 0.11, please read the upgrade guide [here](/modern/en_us/upgrade-guides/from-0.10-to-0.11).

## Major Changes
> For minor changes and bug fixes, check out the [changelogs](https://github.com/TerraFirmaGreg-Team/Modpack-Modern/blob/dev/CHANGELOG.md).

**Build an upgraded rocket and set off to Mars, a long-awaited new dimension! You can get started in EV.**

### Mars
- Mars is a new planet reachable in early EV.
- Mars terrain has been developed by scratch using a mix of TFC and vanilla world-gen systems.
- Encounter a variety of new flora and fauna, some of which is tamable and farmable, and can be used to produce more husbandry products. Perfect for a break from your factory!
- Harsh weather awaits--With heavy sandstorms that coat the lands in layers of sand.
- Something lurks in the deserts; it would be wise to watch your movement.

### Nuclear Fission
- A new nuclear fission line has been developed for TFG and available through [Dea's Fission Mod](https://www.curseforge.com/minecraft/mc-mods/deafission).
- Fission involves a complex heat management puzzle, using different tiers of fuel in combination with cooling solutions to create as much power output as you can! Or... just do something simple. Up to you! Don't worry, our reactors are designed with safety in mind and will simply shutdown if they overheat.

### EV changes
- Radon, Plutonium, the Microprocessor Mainframe and Nano Circuits are now locked behind Fission tech. You shouldn't need IV-tier circuits for anything before then, please let us know if we've missed something.
- Plutonium ore has been removed from the Beneath.
- Tungsten now has a more complicated refinement process! It's pretty straightforward if you just need a little of it, but it has a fully loopable recipe chain too!
- The Netherarium and Enderarium have been removed. You will be able to get all their important outputs from Mars. If you have any nether/ender air stored, distill it because those recipes will be going away soon too.

### Create changes
- Water wheels and windmills are now Greate tiered! Small water wheels are ULS (32 SU max), large water wheels and windmills are LS (128 SU max).
- Large water wheels are now more expensive to craft (and now need steel), but also generate 128 SU by themselves, so you don't need to double them up any more. All water wheels now require actual rivers to rotate at their full effectiveness. You can still use them elsewhere (Earth + Beneath) at partial efficiency.
- Windmill Sail Frames no longer generate SU, but are cheaper to craft, only needing a single wrought iron rod per 8 frames. Windmills now also require open spaces to work at full strength.
- Blaze burners now only need regular steel to craft, so they are the best option if you want on-demand power generation anywhere you want.
- Removed all passive sources of steam engine heating.
- Create Packagers/Jar Packagers are now significantly cheaper to craft.

### AE2 changes
- Programmed Circuit Card has been removed because it was incompatible with the new AE2 fork. Making several machines for different circuits is intended, however if you need to do something like make a whole assembler for a single unique recipe, let us know and we can move the circuit numbers around.
- This is because we've moved to a new AE2 fork which comes with a lot of new features! Shoutouts to [Cosmic Frontiers](https://www.curseforge.com/minecraft/modpacks/cosmic-frontiers) for their work on this.
- Added the Interplanetary Wireless Card, an infinite-range, cross-dimension upgrade for your wireless terminal but costs a lot of power to transfer items. Great for if you forgot something at home, but not useful for mass logistics.
- Universal Wireless Terminal is now obtainable at EV instead of IV

### General Changes
- Significantly increased durability of hiking boots, and now red steel ones have even more durability while blue steel ones increase your speed a little more.
- Added recipes for making liquid concrete (for supports) with barrels and mixing bowl.
- Added a mixer recipe for bio diesel to get started.
- Added more stone supports, aqueducts, and many other stone type fixes.
- Added ULV super tanks and super drums, and a 4A HV Dynamo Hatch.
- Removed raw rubber ingots because they kept confusing people.
- Fixed mechanical pumps grabbing `tfc:river_water` and not water, boilers rejoice!
- Refrigerators now have a toggle for forcing food stacking, as a workaround for the food oven's output. It will stack partial stacks down to the oldest expiring item, so be careful when using this!
- Refrigerators can now also be connected to AE2 and Create Logistics, so you can pull out your food remotely. AE2 doesn't understand the food traits, however, so all your food will visually show as it does in EMI.
- Refrigerators now have more inventory space per tier.
- Added some more food options!

### Translation updates
- Chinese (simplified) @jmecn
- Russian @Dl-GitH
- Ukranian @MetEnBouldry
- French @Mattisso3500 
- Japanese @sakura-gondra