---
title: Update 0.13
order: 4
---
# Major Release 0.13 Changelog

### Warnings & known issues

- As always--We recommend you download a new instance of TFG and copy your save files across (along with your xaeros folder, options.txt, etc) instead of updating directly in place. Also, make backups often!
- WARNING! If you're upgrading your world from 0.12 to 0.13, please read the upgrade guide [here](/modern/en_us/upgrade-guides/from-0.12-to-0.13).
- Using the Beneath start seems to have some trouble involving using a bed to set your spawn.
- There's a lot of null pointer exceptions being spammed in the log files. We're investigating what's causing them, but for the time being they seem to be harmless.

# Major Changes
> For minor changes and bug fixes, check out the [changelogs](https://github.com/TerraFirmaGreg-Team/Modpack-Modern/blob/dev/CHANGELOG.md).

## Beneath
The Beneath has been totally remade! It's now significantly taller (208 blocks tall instead of 128), has almost twice as many biomes, its own new set of crops, fruit trees, and wood sets, new structures, and new challenges. It's been split into three layers instead of just two, with the different layers providing challenges for different stages of the game, from wrought iron age to LV/MV. Also, it's *actually* hot now - make sure you're prepared!

Because of the height change, you'll need to delete your generated chunks so you aren't sent above the bedrock roof. Please read our [upgrade guide](/modern/en_us/upgrade-guides/from-0.12-to-0.13) for instructions on how to do this.

Starting in the Beneath is now an option when creating a new world. For an extra challenge, it should be possible to get to HV without leaving! We'll work on improving this experience and providing some unique Beneath-only ways of getting resources in future updates.

- Beneath ores and fluid veins have been reworked
- Changed piglin bartering table so there's less junk
- The blue steel diving set no longer makes you completely immune to hot temperatures, but it does still provide a lot of cooling and make you immune to fire damage
- All aqueducts can now hold lava and different kinds of water
- The Hellforge now works with any kind of aqueduct, only needs charcoal piles to build instead of Anthracite, and can heat 9 crucibles at once
- Added new tameable/ranchable slimes, for an alternative way to obtain certain resources
- Added a new quest chapter for the Beneath

## Food rework
A substantial rework of food and nutrition has been started. You will begin to notice a lot of new nutrition types have been added. There are now two new categories of nutrients: "Contaminants" and "Transient Effects". Contaminants build up when eating certain foods and can be cured by consuming new capsule medication. Transient effects apply 1 time buffs/debuffs when consuming food. Both of these new nutrient types can merged into dynamic meal items.

In addition to that, now each nutrient type has a special buff on the player when a certain threshold is crossed, such as >85% fruit nutrition granting a passive 30% mining speed buff. You can learn more about all of the nutrition changes by checking out the improved nutrition screen or by reading the [Food and Water](https://wiki.terrafirmagreg.team/modern/field-guide/en_us/getting_started/food_and_water.html) section of the field guide.

On top of the nutrition rework, we are also making a large balance pass on our food items. It is not possible to list every change here. But the major change is that the TFC Gourmet mod is being removed and replaced with our own built-in food items. This is due to buggy interactions and lack of support from the developer. Most new food items will come in a future update. This update will only include Fruit Juice, Smoothies, and Yogurts.

## Fluid Logistics
_Create: Factory Logistics_ has been replaced with _Create Fluid Logistics_, a different fluid addon for Create's logistics system that's less buggy.

Jar packagers in your world should be automatically replaced with the new Fluid packagers, and Fluid Gauges should be automatically replaced with normal factory gauges, which can now handle fluids themselves). **If you use a lot of these, please triple check you've made a backup before updating!**

## Ores
Most ores have received a new coat of paint, improving their item and block textures, corresponding with their real-world crystal structure.

Added a new multiblock that exclusively works at the bottom of the Beneath - the _Geologic Vulcanizer_. Right now, it can process all your ores in one single recipe *and* return a bit of extra than you'd normally get doing all the steps separately! However, it's significantly more complicated to run... check the quest in LV for more details.

Naquadah has been removed from the Beneath. It has temporarily been moved to the Ostrum Linear Accelerator until it eventually finds a home on a future planet.

Chromium has been completely changed. Due to the introduction of gem slurries, Ruby became the king of both aluminium and chromium, which was an unintended side effect. To resolve this:
- Ruby is now a significantly worse source of aluminium, but still a good source of chromium. It's also now a source of Alumina for circuit boards. 
- Garnet Sand has been massively buffed with its own processing line, involving Yellow Garnet and Uvarovite. You can find it in sandy places in the overworld, or in huge quantities at the bottom of the Beneath. 
- Chromite can be obtained through some ore processing, or you can find it and yellow garnet ores on the Moon.

You unlock easier ways of processing all three as you progress.

## New Structures
Added mineshaft structures to the overworld! These are *guaranteed* to contain ore veins and are a great way to explore more of the overworld's caves.

Added new structures to the Beneath, including a large tower structure for easier vertical navigation, and an abandoned house near the top layer.

## New Tools
- Added a Wireless Charger to charge items and equipment around your base! 
- Added a Chameleon Spray Can, a spray can that can do all colors in one item, as well as some extra text effects on signs.

## Shaders
After updating, if your Beneath is entirely tinted red/orange, go to the shader settings > Atmosphere > The Nether Dimension > Color Mode, and change it to "Biome Based", _not_ "Biome Based (Modified)". Alternatively, select a different preset if it says you have a "custom" one.

## Other mod updates
- Added optional compatibility for [Immersive Vehicles](https://www.curseforge.com/minecraft/mc-mods/minecraft-transport-simulator) with the [MTS Official Content Pack](https://www.curseforge.com/minecraft/mc-mods/transport-simulator-official-vehicle-set) and [MTS Official Automobile Pack](https://www.curseforge.com/minecraft/mc-mods/mts-iv-official-automobile-pack)
- Added _Create Stock Bridge_, which lets your create logistics network talk to your AE2 network (it caused a crash with the previous fluid logistics mod)
- _TFC Ambiental_ has been forked into TFG-Core, so we can better optimize it and extend it
- Temporarily removing the _Waves_ mod to investigate a potential chunk corruption bug. Feel free to re-add it if you want