<h1 align="center">Major Release 0.10 Changelog</h1>

<h3 align="center">Warnings & known Issues</h3>

* If you're upgrading your world from 0.9 to 0.10, please read the upgrade guide [here](/en_us/upgrade-guides/from-0.9-to-0.10).
* Some items have multiple, incorrect recycling recipes.
* AoE GregTech tools don't display the right graphics or play the right sounds when breaking blocks, but they do function properly.

<h2 align="center">Upgraded to GTCeu 7.1.3</h2>

> For a comprehensive list of changes, read the logs [here](https://github.com/GregTechCEu/GregTech-Modern/releases).

<h2 align="center">Major Changes</h2>

> For minor changes and bug fixes, check out the [changelogs](https://github.com/TerraFirmaGreg-Team/Modpack-Modern/blob/dev/CHANGELOG.md).

* Build a rocket and blast off to the moon, a new dimension! You can get started in mid-HV.
* AE2 inscriber presses are now found on the moon instead of being craftable, and making various AE2 components is also significantly cheaper there. @TomPlop & @Pyritie
* Significant ore changes: certus quartz, raw aluminium, ilmenite, and some other mid-lategame materials have been moved from the overworld to the moon. Check your field guide for more information. @TomPlop
* A new system for interstellar item transport, made just for TerraFirmaGreg - new logistical problems to solve and automate. @gustovafing
* New machines to properly automate food, along with proper compatibility between machines and TFC's food system, so you can't turn rotten grains into fresh bread any more. The electric greenhouse now also always outputs fresh food. @gustovafing & @Redeix
* The millstone can't mill flour any more for the above reason. There's now a crafting table mortar and pestle recipe instead.
* New electric refrigerator with different tiers. You can craft the old one into this new one, but please take your food out of it before upgrading otherwise it will be lost! @gustovafing
* Added many new advanced food items including freeze-dried fruit, calorie paste, and meal bags. @Redeix
* Main UI overhaul and curseforge branding updated. @Redeix
* Added sunflowers and rapeseed to make Bio Diesel viable. @34y34y34y34y34y34y34y34y34y & @Redeix
* Create 6 update! @AirRice & @aidie8
* Added guns! @BlueBoat29
* Added harvest baskets to pick fruit from fruit trees, berry bushes and grape trellises. @Redeix
* Aged Corn Whiskey and Aged Rye Whiskey now have status effects. @EveProgrammingsockson
* Added mortar and pestel recipes for grain to flour. @Pyritie
* Added in-world shift + right-click interactions for bricks. Greens can be used to turn bricks into mossy bricks, and a knife reverts it. Hammers make cracked bricks and mortar repairs them. JEI view coming soon. @Redeix
* Added sandpaper recipes for early game gems. @Pyritie
* Added universal compost items, for more efficient storage of compostables. @Vazde @Redeix
* Removed Advanced Peripherals' Overpowered End Automata for allowing cheap interdimensional travel.
* Removed Advanced Peripherals' Chunk Controller for allowing too much offline chunkloading, slowing down large servers.
* Added full PBR material shader support for custom GT machines and casings. @Redeix
* Added Invar, Potin, Cobalt, and Cobalt Brass as TFC-compatible metal. @Pyritie
* Added support for links from quests directly to field guide entries. @Zippity
* Changed the TFC ratios of bronze and brass to match GregTech's (3:1 instead of 9:1) @Pyritie
* Quest updates for all of the above. @TomPlop & @Redeix & @Pyritie