# Major Release 0.12 Changelog

### Warnings & known issues

- As always--We recommend you download a new instance of TFG and copy your save files across (along with your xaeros folder, options.txt, etc) instead of updating directly in place. Also, make backups often!
- WARNING! If you're upgrading your world from 0.11 to 0.12, please read the upgrade guide [here](/en_us/upgrade-guides/from-0.11-to-0.12).
- The ingame "preview world" screen (K by default) does not work with the new worldgen. In the meantime, it _does_ work when creating a new world, so you can copy your seed and use it there. Note that it will still only show old biomes instead of any of the new ones, but the overall shape of your continent should be roughly the same in the new worldgen too.

# Major Changes

<div align="center">
  <blockquote>
     For minor changes and bug fixes, check out the <a href="https://github.com/TerraFirmaGreg-Team/Modpack-Modern/blob/dev/CHANGELOG.md">changelogs</a>.
  </blockquote>
</div>

## Overworld
**The Overworld world generation has been completely changed!**

We've backported TFC's new 1.21 world generation. By default, 0.11 worlds will continue to use old world generation, while new worlds will use new world generation. If you want to force your old world to use the new world generation, please see the [upgrade guide](/en_us/upgrade-guides/from-0.11-to-0.12).

We've also backported some of the new crops, animals, and decorative plants, as well as added a new system to set your spawn in different climates for an easier or harder experience!

Please keep in mind that TFC is still updating its worldgen and we will be backporting any further changes. So the current worldgen is **not final**.

## Fluid veins
Fluid veins have changed to be more climate and biome dependent. Now, you may need to travel a bit in order to find good fluid veins, encouraging exploration and train networks. Areas with good amounts of fluid will have new features on the surface, such as a small oil tar pool, or natural gas vents. Check out the new EMI tab for where to find good veins. (Note that even the "bad" veins should still be good enough for players who aren't using oil as a main fuel source!)
In addition, there's a new "ULV fluid rig" for natural gas, if you'd like to go that route.

## Ore veins
Overworld ore veins have also been overhauled. Now they are split into several varieties: 
- Surface veins will follow the shape of the terrain, ensuring they are always available no matter how high or low you are. They are small, common, and only contain one kind of ore. These are perfect for starting off your TFC journey.
- Normal veins are similar to what you were used to in previous versions. These are larger, contain multiple ores, and often have surface indicators.
- High veins spawn commonly in high elevation biomes like mountains and new shield volcanoes.
- Sand veins spawn their ores inside sand instead of rock. Look for beaches or deserts to find these.
- Deep veins are, well, very deep, and almost never spawn any surface indicators. They are very large and rich but you won't need them until you are further into GregTech.

Panning and sluicing has been buffed so they give full dusts and small dusts.

Ore indicators are no longer visible on the map.

In addition, generic "Coal" no longer exists. It's been replaced with TFC's Lignite and Bituminous Coal. Existing raw coal ore should automatically turn into bituminous coal, other items should have shapeless crafting recipes into bituminous coal, and coal ore blocks in your world should also be bituminous coal. You can use lignite and bituminous coal in all of the same ways you used to use raw coal ore as well as the vanilla coal items. This also means coal ore processing has been removed. 

## The Beneath
The beneath itself has not changed in this version (although we plan on giving it a makeover next!), but the way you access it is slightly different.
You still need to reach the bedrock of the overworld, but now there is a new **Hornfels** layer in the way. You have three options to get past this layer:
1. Use steel or higher tools to break the blocks. Hornfels cannot be broken by any other lower tier tool.
2. Use explosives such as a Powder Keg, Powder Barrel, Primitive Explosives, or an unwilling Creeper.
3. Find an area of Keratophyre. These ancient lava pipes are brittle and can be broken with any tool, and can penetrate the Hornfels layer down to bedrock. The amount of caves at the bottom of the world has been increased so it should be straightforward to find an area of Keratophyre.

This change is intended to encourage more cave exploration or further preparation instead of just digging straight down to the beneath as soon as possible.

## Power generation
Over the course of 0.11, we've completely reworked powergen, so in every tier you have more options and there's no objectively "best" option like there used to be.
- Large Steam Boilers are available earlier but have reduced steam output by default. To compensate, there's now a new system to boost the steam output using Booster liquids. For example, charcoal + creosote combined will produce a similar amount of steam as before, but there's lots of other options as well. Check out the new EMI tab! Large steel boilers have an additional system where you can feed them distilled water to increase their potency even further, and Large Steam Turbines are now available in HV. These changes mean you can ride steam power all the way until nuclear fission if you'd like! The large titanium and tungstensteel boilers have been removed. Make sure your large boiler controller says it's from TFG and not GregTech.
- Gas fuels have been completely reworked. Now, they are intended to be a "complicated to produce the fuel, but cheap to build the generators" fuel method, as opposed to steam's new "easy to produce the fuel, but expensive to build the generators" theme. Start by making Syngas in late steam age, then move onto Reformate Gas in MV. That should last until BTX fuel in EV/IV. These changes are to stop the insane amount of scaling that you could do with Nitrobenzene in previous versions, making it overall more balanced. Natural Gas is largely unchanged, except now there's a new ULV multiblock to act as a fluid rig for it.
- For combustion fuels, some fuels like heavy fuel, light fuel, and naphtha have been nerfed to the ground, but now you're able to make Diesel and Biodiesel directly in late steam age/LV. Cetane Boosted Diesel is your MV upgrade, and then you've got Gasoline in EV while High Octane Gasoline has been moved to IV. To get oils early, you can find oil spouts in the Deserts to the south-west of the world, which you can extract with a GT pump machine or Create Hose Pulley.
- The fission system has been changed a bunch since its first iteration. Rods now overheat and produce less byproduct if you aren't careful, and there's a new heat battery system to connect it to the Ostrum Linear Accelerator, which has also changed significantly to be a better part of EV progression. After you finish the mars part of fission, you're now able to make new fuel rods to power your Overworld base with fission energy as well!

## GregTech progression
Since 0.11.0, almost every tier of gregtech has been changed in some way.
- Late LV has had a bunch of new content added, to make up for a lot of earlier LV content being moved to steam age.
- MV has been expanded to demand more out of your growing factory, ensuring it's growing at a steady pace. Silicon boules and lenses now require a new process and Silicone Rubber is now mandatory in a few places.
- HV now requires the moon as part of progression, and a few parts of HV are more expensive than before to keep your factory growing. Titanium requires Nichrome coils now.
- EV has been changed a little so mars feels better integrated with the tier instead of just somewhere you do all at once quickly and then leave. All of the earlier tier changes were actually made because of how much of a "brick wall" EV used to feel like, with peoples' factories being very underdeveloped, so now everything should feel smoother.

## Tools
- Every tier now has its own set of tool materials, and existing tool stats have been rebalanced. Sorry, this means you can't keep using blue steel all the way to IV.
- Added new repair kits so tools and equipment can actually be repaired

## Shaders
We now have our own shader team! The TFG shaders are now fully compatible with colorwheel and euphoria patches so you can get the performance improvements and colored lighting effects for making your GPU scream.

## Other major changes
- The railgun works again!
- Added a new multiblock to automatically milk and shear animals, at reduced rates of wear and tear
- Train-related things are cheaper
- Mars woods now have full wood sets
- Added crafting stations, a workbench which connects to adjacent inventories
- And much more! Look through our [Releases](https://github.com/TerraFirmaGreg-Team/Modpack-Modern/releases) page for every changelog.

## Translation updates
We now have a dedicated site on [Crowdin](https://crowdin.terrafirmagreg.team/) to handle all of our translations, so now there's too many people to list at the bottom of every changelist. If you'd like to help translate, follow that link! If you want to translate a language we currently aren't translating, please request it in the [Crowdin Translation forum thread](https://discord.com/channels/400913133620822016/1483124690951213188) in our discord.